For many people (Saudi Arabia) is famous for its oil, which is a pool of fluids
She brought with her wealth to the monarchy.
But there are valuable resources under the arid Arabian desert, called "groundwater",
It enabled them to cultivate huge agricultural areas in the middle of the desert.
There are only 18 countries on this planet without rivers.
(Saudi Arabia) is the largest of them.
The case with many of these countries is that they are often small island states
And it does not have high altitudes to help the formation of rivers.
In the "Gulf" region, that is a different story.
Here, the scene is marked by the "Arabian Desert".
By definition, a river is a permanently flowing body of water.
In (Saudi Arabia), there are so-called "valleys".
It is a dry riverbed, some of which are seasonal.
For example, "Wadi Hanifa", which runs through the capital (Riyadh).
This map shows the elevations in Saudi Arabia.
The "Asir Mountains" extend along the coast to the "Red Sea".
Here, the climate is cooler and during the 'Indian Ocean' monsoon season there is a great deal
Of precipitation in this region, as is evident from this rainfall map.
Due to water scarcity, it is a major challenge for (Saudi Arabia) in maintaining agriculture and
Avoiding dependence almost entirely on imports.
In order to use more efficient rains for agriculture and water supply, several dams
It was built, especially in the southwest of the country, as a reserve.
It is noteworthy that the "Bish Dam" and the "King Fahd Dam", which are considered among the largest reservoirs
In the state.
In the rest of the country the rain is infrequent and uneven and thus insufficient
To preserve livestock and cultivate productively.
In the 1970s and 1980s, there was a political desire to be self-sufficient
And the state has pushed forward many initiatives to renew the agricultural sector.
And if you looked at the desert from space, you would now see large agricultural areas filled up
From crop circles resulting from "pivot irrigation".
The water needed for this is pumped from deep below the surface.
From the "aquifers" that were filled during the "Ice Age" when the climate was in this region
Significantly cool
With the help of this water, which has accumulated thousands of years ago, large areas can
Used for cultivation.
But there are also a lot of difficulties.
After all, groundwater in this region is almost non-renewable, due to which it is
There is hardly any rain.
(The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia) suffers from the rapid depletion of water in the "aquifers".
And the country's agricultural sector is disintegrating.
The level of "groundwater" in (Al-Ahsa) decreased by about 150 meters, which is equivalent to
492 feet in just 25 years.
And the circular green fields in the desert are disappearing fast.
(Saudi Arabia) in 2008 had to adjust course.
They have given up on the idea of ​​turning their deserts into fertile farmland.
This census shows the annual wheat production in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Reforms in the 1980s led to a massive increase.
But since 2008 this number has decreased completely.
And when we put in the quantity of imported wheat, we see the change in strategy
2008 year.
The "agricultural investment" initiative was launched abroad.
The goal is to purchase and manage land in other countries in order to save water at home.
Saudi Food Companies acquire agricultural lands in (Argentina), and through subsidiary companies,
In Arizona and California.
"Alfalfa" is mainly grown, then it is imported to (Saudi Arabia) and used as "cattle feed".
With this method, they do not have to worry about depleting their aquifers
So they are actually importing water.
They also lease land in (Sudan), as well as (Zambia) and to a large extent in (Ethiopia).
There is already a lease agreement belonging to (Saudi Star for Agricultural Development) for an area of ​​140 thousand hectares in
(Ethiopia)
The Saudi company’s long-term goal is to lease up to 500,000 hectares.
These investments can create disputes over water, for example in many areas where land is leased
They are already suffering from a lack of water.
To ensure the water supply to its citizens, (Saudi Arabia) is investing heavily in
Seawater desalination
It is now the largest producer of desalinated water in the world.
For example, most of the water is pumped into (Medina) from the desalination plant
Located on the "red sea"
Drinking water in the capital (Riyadh) comes mainly from the (Jubail) desalination plant.
On the ("Persian Gulf"), at a distance of 500 kilometers or about 310 miles, where it is pumped internally through the pipeline.
As of January 2019, it produces around 1.4 million cubic meters of water
in a day
The water supply in (Saudi Arabia) is heavily subsidized.
The government commissioned a number of private companies from all over the world
For these stations.
In order to keep costs down for the consumer, the government buys water from these companies
She sells it to families for a much lower price.
There are efforts to increase these home pricing in order to create more incentives
To rationalize water consumption.
But tariff increases are not uncommon, and the last time tariffs were raised in 2016,
The price hike caused an uproar, and he was eventually replaced by the "Minister of Water".
A common way to desalinate sea water is through thermal desalination.
There are a number of different technical processes here but they are basically accomplished
By boiling the water and thus separating it from the "salt".
The other, more energy-efficient method is desalination through "reverse osmosis".
In "reverse osmosis", sea water is compressed and forced to pass through a membrane
Only water molecules are allowed in, thus separating them from the "salt".
Currently, about half of the drinking water production comes from desalination.
But although desalination appears reasonable, there are a number of disadvantages to it.
Especially in terms of its impact on the environment.
A side effect of the brine desalination process is "heavy salt concentration".
The rest at the end after analysis
This saltwater solution is usually returned to the ocean where it can cause environmental damage.
(Saudi Arabia) is able to desalinate large quantities of water because it can produce the energy required for that
Using "fossil fuels."
In "thermal desalination", "fossil fuels" are used to generate the necessary heat
In “reverse osmosis”, the electricity needed is largely produced using “natural gas”.
Hence, these approaches are not sustainable approaches to solving the water problem.
Hence, (Saudi Arabia is also investing) in solar powered stations, such as
The largest station in the world is in (Khafji).
But the country still relies heavily on "fossil fuels" and fossil (groundwater) waters.
The importance of finding sustainable solutions to these enormous challenges is demonstrated in
Depletion of "groundwater" levels in previous decades.